For an acquisition shop we do things a little differently.
We believe in effectively communicating
with potential bidders and getting feedback
before we reach the altar.
One of the best ways to
accelerate our acquisition schedule is
to actually communicate face-to-face
with the people and firms that will
ultimately do the work.
Your upcoming Due Diligence session will be your first
chance to see this in action.
Due Diligence sessions are one-on-one
face-to-face meetings with industry partners.
FEDSIM finds these sessions to be
the most effective means of communication.
It allows the acquisition team
to assess the interaction and
communication of each offeror.
This is an opportunity for the government to assess
the quality of the draft solicitation
based on the number and types of
questions industry asks.
It also gives you an opportunity to communicate
themes and priorities, and to clarify your
requirements.
Your role in Due Diligence is not only to sit and
listen to questions, but also to engage in dialogue
with industry.
FEDSIM encourages bringing personnel who are
the subject matter experts and stakeholders
to participate in these sessions if they will be
involved in the evaluation process.
Even if some content isn't relevant to their
area of expertise, their skilled response
to a technical or program management
question can make all the difference to
industry partners seeking to fully
understand the solicitation response you
are looking for.
It's worth the personnel investment
on the front end of the project.
We've been working on the draft
solicitation for some time now,
so it's natural to believe we're ninety-five
percent complete.
But what was clear to us
could very well be ambiguous to industry.
Engaging in dialogue helps
clarify requirements and enables the
finalization of the solicitation.
While Due Diligence may seem unusual,
FAR 15.201 advocates one-on-one exchanges
prior to the solicitation.
Even OMB has reinforced one-on-one meetings with
industry in their 2011 myth-busting memo.
FEDSIM won the first award for myth-busting
the next year.
These pre-proposal meetings with industry facilitate
bid/no bid decisions, encourage competition,
and result in better technical
approaches and solutions.
There are ground rules that we share with industry
beforehand, and we have proof that it works.
In fact, FEDSIM has been protested
dozens of times and Due Diligence has
never been part of the protest.
Of course, there are boundaries to what can be
discussed in Due Diligence such as
current contract performance,
cost or price, technical evaluation criteria or
approval of a particular approach or solution.
Outside of these boundaries
this is your opportunity to signal
messages to industry about your
priorities and goals.
For any specific questions, please contact your
FEDSIM Contracting Officer.